#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass itutez
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Moment resisting steel frames structures stand out with important performance
 parameters of structure design such as safety, economy and aesthetics.
 Moment resisting steel frames with high ductility capacities are frequently
 used in low and medium rise buildings in earthquake zones.
 The high ductility characteristics of the moment frames in the simplicity
 of the system's energy damping mechanism when subjected to horizontal forces.
 In these systems, especially under earthquake forces, a great number of
 yields in the beams are achieved by inelastic deformation without reducing
 the strength of the structure.
 In such structures, the principle of strong column-weak beam is applied
 to ensure that plastic hinges are formed in the beams before the columns,
 to increase ductility and delay the collapse of the structure.
 This rule results in the selection of larger column sections than required
 and uneconomical, extremely safe designs.
 In order to solve this problem, especially in the USA, the method is to
 design only the outer frames of the buildings as horizontal load bearing
 systems.
 However, one of the main disadvantages of these structures is that the
 redistribution of the system is limited(low redundancy).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
During the 1994 Northridge and 1995 Kobe earthquakes, heavy and unexpected
 damages occurred in rigid connected moment resisting steel frames structures,
 and especially in fully welded connections, leading to a review of the
 design methods of such structures.
 Following this discovery, a consortium of professional associations and
 researchers known as the SAC Joint Venture conducted extensive work to
 identify the causes of this unexpected behavior and develop recommendations
 for building a more robust moment framework.
 Cracks and damages were found to be the result of basic joint geometry,
 lack of control of basic materials, the use of weld filler metals with
 low toughness in the internal structure, divot breakage of column heads,
 damage caused by the cover plate, inadequate quality control and other
 factors.
 The resulting research formed the basis for regulatory design requirements
 for existing special moment frameworks.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Moment frames can be said to have great displacement properties as both
 advantages and disadvantages.
 It is debatable to what extent all column-beam joints in a structure are
 fully rigid or ideally hinged in the design.
 In fact, when the behavior of the joints used in the moment frame is in
 the strong or weak axis, it is necessary to use very specific detailing
 in order to show that the joints exhibit rigid or ideal hinged behavior,
 whereas the majority of the joints used are between two rigid and hinged
 end boundary states.
 These connection types of classified as semi-rigid connections.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Over the past half century, computer aided software tools used by engineers
 for structural design have made significant progress.
 However, there are still some assumptions made during the modeling and
 design of steel structures.
 Especially for a steel structure designed in the earthquake zone, the aim
 of safety and economy is of great importance.
 The structural design philosophy in the earthquake regulations underlines
 that even in an earthquake with a reasonable probability of occurrence,
 absolute safety and damage cannot be ensured.
 However, it aims to economically provide a high level of safety in buildings
 by allowing some structural and non-structural damage and absorbing inelastic
 energy.
 As a result of this design philosophy, the horizontal design force prescribed
 in the regulations is lower than the horizontal force required to keep
 the structure within the elastic range.
 Retention of the structure in the elastic envelope means that all structural
 elements subjected to lateral movement are returned to the initial state
 without any permanent deformation and damage, which is to be maintained,
 far from practical and rational.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When the design of moment frames is considered, the main parameter that
 governs the design is displacement.
 This study focuses on the concept of connection rotation stiffness in the
 design of steel frame structures with moment resistance in the literature
 and earthquake regulations, and the concept of the reaction coefficient
 of change for the actual displacement of regulations to be used in design.
 The displacement amplification coefficient is used to obtain the displacement
 value of the structure from the elastic displacement value in the inelastic
 state.
 For this purpose, low, medium and high storied rigid connections moment
 framed structures were designed for the earthquake level determined and
 examined with five different rotational stiffnesses by linear inelastic
 static and dynamic analyses.
 15 steel frame static pushover analyses and 18 real-ground motion dynamic
 time-history analyses were scaled at the design earthquake level.
 With these analysis results, the displacement amplification factor was
 calculated for each steel frame.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In low, medium and high-rise frames, 
\begin_inset Formula $C_{\mathrm{d}}$
\end_inset

 coefficients calculated under average of 4.84 for dynamic analysis and 3.86
 for dynamic analysis are less than the values of 5.50 and 8.00 used by AISC
 and TBDY-2018 regulations, respectively.
 The results show that the stiffness of the connection in a steel-frame
 structure changes the behavior of the structure, thereby changing the displacem
ent amplification factor, which is an important response coefficient for
 steel-frame structures.
 The difference in the displacement amplification coefficients shows that
 the rigidity of the connections used in the structure should not be ignored
 if a non-linear evaluation of a moment resisting steel frame is performed.
 In addition, the decrease in connection stiffness has shown that the ductility
 ratio of the structures is reduced.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
